Cladwell: You'll be off to Rio, then, I imagine?
Fipp: Already got my ticket.
Cladwell: Good work on the floor of the Legislature, Fipp. It was touch and go there for a while, I understand.
Fipp: Well, your "Beaches of Rio" slide show changed their minds soon enough. Just like it changed my mind those many years ago. God, I wish I'd never met you, Caldwell B. Cladwell.
Hope: Sorry to interrupt, Daddy. I just wanted to make sure you got your morning faxes.
Cladwell: Why, Hope, you're absolutely glowing!
Fipp: It would seem that office work agrees with her. What with the faxing and all.
Cladwell: And the copying.
Fipp: Oh yes. The copying. You're a good girl, Hope Cladwell. I used to be one. Before I met your father.
Hope: A good girl?
Fipp: You heard me.... Six hundred and twenty two. Six hundred and twenty three. Just a few more.
Hope: Daddy? Can I ask you a question?
Cladwell: Sure, Hope darling. What is it?
Hope: Do you believe in love?
Cladwell: Love? Why do you ask?
Hope: Just wondering. I met this boy, you see-
McQueen: Sorry to interrupt, Mister Cladwell. We've got a little problem.
Penny: Caldwell. Long time, no see.
Cladwell: Ms. Pennywise.
McQueen: Anyway... it's about Public Amenity Number Nine, sir. The people there have rioted.
Cladwell: Rioted?!
Penny: They're peeing for free, Caldwell. I tried to stop them.
Lockstock: The assistant custodian is refusing to take people's money, sir. A young man by the name of Bobby Strong.
Hope: Bobby Strong?
Lockstock: They've rescinded the Public Health Act.
McQueen: And the Water Preservation Act.
Fipp: Can they do that?!
McQueen: Strictly symbolic, sir. The crowd gathered there is an unthinkably small percentage of the population as a whole.
Hope: What's happening, Daddy? I don't understand.
Cladwell: I wouldn't expect a good and pure heart like yours to understand.
Lockstock: Mister Barrel and I are ready, Mister Cladwell. Just give the word.
Fipp: What did I tell you, Cladwell? It's a powder keg out there, and I have a very important plane to catch! Excuse me.
Cladwell: Fipp! You're not going anywhere. Not until we nip this unpleasantness in the bud.
Hope: Nip? How so?
Cladwell: You're a Cladwell, Hope. What would you do if the very foundation of your life's work were threatened by the rabble rousing son of a convicted criminal?
Hope: Look deep into his heart and try to understand what made it pound so angrily.
Cladwell: Angry, you say?! No one gets angry at me! Not without a beating!
Hope: A beating? Oh, Daddy, beating people is wrong.
Cladwell: Life is a beating! The sooner you learn that, the better.
Hope: Then life is wrong.
Cladwell: Embrace it. I have.
Hope: Life should be beautiful.
Cladwell: Life is many things. Look deeper, you'll see it. I do. I see it everywhere.
Hope: But, Daddy, we're talking about people, not animals.
Cladwell: People are animals, Hope darling.
Hope: Animals with huge incisors and big floppy feet?
Cladwell: Look closely, you'll see them. I do. I see them... everywhere.
Hope: A little bunny at a tollbooth?
Cladwell: You heard me.
Hope: But, Daddy, bunnies don't drive cars.
Cladwell: Oh, don't they?!
Hope: No, actually, I don't think they do.
Cladwell: Live long enough, Hope darling, you see... many things.
Hope: Even a daughter doubting her father?
Cladwell: All right, everybody, get yourselves together! It's time we bagged ourselves a few rabbits! Let's go!