Bobby: One at a time! One at a time! Everyone will get a turn!
Soupy Sue: Here's some cash, Bobby. Just for you.
Bobby: Keep your cash, friend. And relieve yourself in happiness.
Josephine: A busy day so far. Busiest on record, if your books are right. How's the urinal holding out?
Bobby: A little spillage, nothing to be concerned about. The people are happy, that's the main thing.
Little Becky Two-shoes: Police!
Robby the Stockfish: Run!
Bobby: Wait! Wait! Please, everyone, remain calm!
Lockstock: It'll take a lot of explaining to keep us calm, Bobby Strong.
Bobby: We've taken control of this amenity, Officers. The people here pee for free.
Cladwell: That's my amenity, Officers. I want all of these people taken away.
Little Sally: Officer Lockstock, what's happening?
Lockstock: Why, it's the Act One finale, Little Sally. This is where Cladwell arrives to snuff out the uprising. It's a big song and dance number involving the entire cast.
Little Sally: Snuff out the uprising? But what about Bobby's dreams?
Lockstock: Well now, Little Sally, dreams only come true in happy musicals- and a few Hollywood movies- and this certainly isn't either one of those. No, dreams are meant to be crushed. It's nature's way.
Little Sally: This may not be a happy musical, Officer Lockstock, but it's still a musical. And when a little girl has been given as many lines as I have, there's still hope for dreams!
Hope: Bobby?!
Bobby: Hope?!
Hope: What are you doing, Bobby?! I told you to follow your heart, not seize an amenity!
Bobby: I did follow my heart, Hope. Thanks to you.
Penny: The amenity won't take much more of this uprising, Caldwell. Bobby's a sweet boy, but not sweet enough to sweeten that spillage, not by a long shot.
Bobby: The amenity will take as much as it has to, Ms. Pennywise. The days of deprivation are over for these people.
Cladwell: The days of deprivation have just begun if this madness continues a moment longer.
Bobby: Sure, Mister Cladwell, that's what you've been saying for twenty years. And for twenty years we've waited for the long term solutions that never came. Well, we're done waiting, you see, for a new day has dawned today. A day of hope and happiness when the idea of human dignity is more than just a forgotten notion, but a living, breathing reality. A day- this day- when the people pee for free, because the people are free!
Penny: Uh, perhaps best to stay back here with your father, Hope dear. The police will want to charge soon.
Bobby: Your father?
Hope: Charge?! Daddy, these people need understanding, not brutality.
Cladwell: On the contrary, Hope dear, a little brutality is exactly what these people need. Officer Lockstock!
Hope: Daddy, wait. He only wants the people to be happy, isn't that worth something?
Cladwell: Happy, you say?! Happy?!
Cladwell: Officer Lockstock! Prepare your... man.
Bobby: Everybody into the amenity! We'll be... relatively safer in there!
Hope: Oh, Bobby, why didn't you tell me you were going to start a revolution?
Bobby: Maybe for the same reason you didn't tell me you were a Cladwell.
Hope: I'm the same girl I was last night.
Bobby: The girl last night would have joined us by now, Hope.
Hope: I can't fight against my father, Bobby.
Bobby: And I can't not fight against him. So you can join us or you can stand aside.
Hope: Stand aside?
Bobby: You heard me.
Cladwell: You've picked a fight you can't win, today, Mister Strong! Your rabble is no match for my men.
Josephine: He's right, Bobby. They've got... one... two... two men, and we're all so poor!
Cladwell: New release the girl. It's time you faced your punishment like a man.
Bobby: Release?! No one's holding-
Old Man Strong: Bobby! Bobby, reason with the woman! I'm a little short this morning!
Tiny Tom: No shorter than yesterday. Unless I've grown.
Little Sally: You can punish our bodies, Mister Cladwell, but you can never punish our spirits!
Soupy Sue: Punish our bodies?!
Little Becky Two-shoes: I never agreed to any punishment of my body!
Cladwell: Oh, punishment is all you'll ever know... once you release the girl!!
Hope: So what'll it be, Bobby?
Bobby: Looks like we're in a real tight spot, doesn't it?
Hope: Your fellow revolutionaries seem to think so.
Bobby: I suppose we should leave.
Hope: Oh, Bobby, they'll never let you leave now.
Old Man Strong: Remember me, boys! Oh God, what have I done?! Remember me!!!
Bobby: Not without you, they won't. Which is why you're coming with us.
Hope: Coming with you? I told you, Bobby, I won't fight against my father.
Bobby: And I told you I won't not fight against him.
Hope: But how can I come with you and still not fight against my father unless... unless... oh dear God, Bobby, no!!!
Bobby: Keep your men back, Cladwell! We've got your daughter and we're not letting her go!
Hope: Bobby, what are you-
Josephine: In the name of the sky, you're coming with us!
Bobby: We're walking out of here, Mister Cladwell, and you're going to let us! That is, if you care about your daughter.
Cladwell: You're making a terrible mistake, Mister Strong.
Penny: Let the girl go, Bobby, she's done nothing wrong!
Bobby: Don't let go of the girl. And follow me!
Lockstock: Boss, what do we do?!
Cladwell: Seize them!
Penny: No!
Cladwell: Don't let them get away!
Hope: Help me!
Penny: Help her!
Bobby: Now run, everybody! Run for your lives! RUN!!
Lockstock: Well, that's it for Act One. As you can see, the rebel poor are making their getaway with Hope as a hostage. The rest of us have been thrown into confusion because- well, because we're all moving so damned slowly. So we don't get to catch them. Not yet. Enjoy intermission, and see you- shortly!