Lockstock: Well, hello there. And welcome- to Act Two! Things have changed here a bit Since last we saw each other, so I'll bring you up‘to speed on a few things. As you may remember, the rebel poor under Bobby's leadership kidnapped Hope and used her as a shield to escape due punishment from my... man. Word has it they're holed up in some secret hideout somewhere. Perhaps this one- here.
Soupy Sue: Where the hell is Bobby?! And Little Sally?! And Old Ma Strong?! They should have been back by now.
Hot Blades Harry: Ah, who are we kiddin'? The police probably nabbed them hours ago. It's just a matter of time before our whereabouts are tortured out of them. And then it'll be off to Urinetown for the lot of us.
Tiny Tom: Wha- what's it like, do you think?
Hot Blades Harry: Urinetown? Don't even ask.
Robby the Stockfish: No one knows for sure.
Hot Blades Harry: I got my suspicions.
Tiny Tom: Oh yeah?
Little Becky Two-shoes: Sure, kid, everyone's got suspicions.
Hot Blades Harry: So don't get your hopes up. And I say if they're not back soon, we give it to her like her father was gonna give it to us.
Lockstock: People hear lots of things about Urinetown, of course, and that's just the way we like it. For example, a little boy once asked me, "Is Urinetown actually a nice place to live? Gingerbread houses along golden, frothy canals? Like Venice, but different?" I didn't say yes. I didn't say no either.
Cladwell: I want them found, damn it! I want my daughter released and I want Bobby Strong punished!
Lockstock: We're working round the Clock, Sir. But as the sign says, it is a secret hideout, so-
Cladwell: Enough of your excuses, Lockstock! You've got weapons! Use them!
Lockstock: But, sir-
McQueen: We should hurry, sir. The Emergency Planning Quorum is waiting.
Cladwell: Yes, of course. The Quorum.
Josephine: That was a close one, Bobby. I thought Barrel saw us there for sure.
Bobby: We'll have to keep on our toes, Ma. At least until we've distributed the rest of these memos to the other assistant custodians around the city.
Josephine: Do you think they'll join us?
Bobby: Hard to say. They're scared like we used to be scared, but if it's true what they say about everyone having a heart, they'll have to join us.
Josephine: Your heart is like a stallion?
Bobby: I'll explain along the way, Ma. C'mon, let's go.
Lockstock: Where are they hiding, Little Sally?! Tell me and I'll see things go easy on you.
Little Sally: Easy on me?! You mean like sending me to the nice part of Urinetown?!
Lockstock: That can be arranged.
Little Sally: Save it for one of your other stoolies, Officer Lockstock. My heart's with the rebellion. And besides, the way I see it, I'm already in Urinetown. We all are. Even you.
Lockstock: Me? In Urinetown?
Little Sally: Sure. The way I see it, Urinetown isn't so much a a place as it is a metaphysical place.
Lockstock: Where'd she go?! Damn it. Welcome back, everybody. And enjoy- what's left of the show! Little Sally... Little Sally... What did you mean by "metaphysical"?