Scene 1

Lockstock: Well, hello there. And welcome- to Urinetown! Not the place, of course. The musical. Urinetown "the place" is... well, it's a place you'll hear people referring to a lot throughout the show.

Penny: You hear the news? They carted Old So and So off to Urinetown the other day.

Bobby: Is that so? What he do?

Penny: Oh, such and such, I hear.

Bobby: Well, what do you know? Old So and So.

Lockstock: It's kind of a mythical place, you understand. A bad place. A place you won't see until Act Two. And then...? Well, let's just say it's filled with symbolism and things like that.

Lockstock: But Urinetown "the musical," well, here we are. Welcome. It takes place in a town like any town... that you might find in a musical. This here's the first setting for the show. As the sign says, it's a "public amenity," meaning public toilet. These people have been waiting for hours to get in; it's the only amenity they can afford to get into.

Little Sally: Say, Officer Lockstock, is this where you tell the audience about the water shortage?

Lockstock: What's that, Little Sally?

Little Sally: You know, the water shortage. The hard times. The drought. A shortage so awful that private toilets eventually became unthinkable. A premise so absurd that-

Lockstock: Whoa there, Little Sally. Not all at once. They'll hear more about the water shortage in the next scene.

Little Sally: Oh. I guess you don't want to overload them with too much exposition, huh?

Lockstock: Everything in its time, Little Sally. You're too young to understand it now, but nothing can kill a show like too much exposition.

Little Sally: How about bad subject matter?

Lockstock: Well--

Little Sally: Or a bad title, even? That could kill a show pretty good.

Lockstock: Well, Little Sally, suffice it to say that in Urinetown (the musical) everyone has to use public bathrooms in order to take care of their private business. That's the central conceit of the show!

Lockstock: Later on you'll learn that these public bathrooms are controlled by a private company. They keep admission high, generally, so if you're down on your luck, you have to come to a place like this- one of the poorest, filthiest urinals in town.

Little Sally: And you can't just go in the bushes either- there's laws against it.

Lockstock: That's right, Little Sally. Harsh laws, too. That's why Little Sally here's counting her pennies. Isn't that so, Little Sally?

Little Sally: I'm very close, Officer. Only a few pennies away.

Lockstock: Aren't we all, Little Sally. Aren't we all.

Hope: Excuse me, sir, but can you tell me the way to the private company that controls these public bathrooms?

Bobby: You mean Urine Good Company?

Hope: That's the one.

Lockstock: You'll meet the guy who runs Urine Good Company later. That there's his daughter.

Bobby: It's quite a ways from here, ma'am. This here's the bad part of town.

Hope: So it is.

Bobby: But if you squint, you can just make out their headquarters rising above the skyline.

Hope: The gleaming tower on the hill?

Bobby: That's the one.

Hope: Gosh, it's beautiful.

Bobby: You most certainly are.

Hope: Pardon?

Bobby: It most certainly is.

Hope: Oh dear, I'm late already. Thanks ever so much for the directions and such. Bye!

Bobby: Anytime.

Lockstock: Well, we've talked on long enough, I imagine. Enjoy the show. And welcome- to Urinetown (the musical)!

Penny: All right, folks, you know the drill. Form a line and have yer money ready. We'll nor be repeating yesterday's fiasco, and that means you, Old Man Strong.

Little Sally: ...Four hundred and ninety six. Four hundred and ninety seven. Just a few more.

Little Sally: Penny for a pee, sir?

Little Sally: Please, sir, spare a penny for a morning pee, sir?

Fipp: What's that?

Little Sally: Or a nickel or a dime?

Fipp: Out of my way, child! I've peeing of my own to tend to.

Little Sally: But-

Old Man Strong: I haven't got it!

Penny: Then go get it!

Old Man Strong: C'mon, Penny, I'm good for it.

Penny: That's what you said last week and I still haven't seen penny one. And it's Ms. Pennywise to you.

Old Man Strong: Bobby! Bobby, reason with the woman. I'm a little short this morning.

Tiny Tom: No shorter than yesterday. Unless I've grown.

Bobby: He's my pa, Ms. Pennywise. Can't he come in for free? Just this once?

Penny: Get your head out of the clouds, Bobby Strong. No one gets in for free.

Old Man Strong: Now, Ms. Pennywise, we've all had to make special... arrangements with people in high places over the years. Why not let this one be ours?

Soupy Sue: If Old Man Strong gets in for free, then so do I!

Tiny Tom: And I!

Little Becky Two-shoes: And I!

Penny: Quiet back there! No one's gettin' anywhere for free! Don't you think I have bills of my own to pay?! Don't you think I have taxes and tariffs and payoffs to meet, too?! Well, I do! And I don't pay them with promises, see. I pay them with cash! Cold hard cash. Every morning you all come here. And every mornng some of you got reasons why ya ain't gonna pay. And I'm here to tell ya, ya is gonna pay!

Bobby: But, Ms. Penny-

Penny: No buts, Bobby.

Old Man Strong: In the name of God, Penny, what difference could it make?

Penny: What difference?!!

Bobby: But, Ms. Pennywise-

Penny: I said no buts, Bobby. You're a sweet lookin' boy and I likes to keep you around, but this man ain't comin' in without payin'. Not this time.

Old Man Strong: I can't wait much longer, Bobby. There's no tellin' What I might do!

Bobby: But, Ms. Pennywise-

Old Man Strong: That's enough, Bobby.

Old Man Strong: No need to jeopardize your position.

Old Man Strong: I'm through with all this, you see.

Old Man Strong: Scrapin' cash three times a day.

Old Man Strong: Crazy with the nitrates half the time.

Old Man Strong: It's no way to live, I tells ya! No way to live!

Bobby: Pa! Pa, what are ya doin'?! Have ya lost your mind?!

Old Man Strong: More than that, boy! A whole lot more than that!

Soupy Sue: Looky there!

Robby the Stockfish: It's Old Man Strong! He ain't waitin'!

Little Becky Two-shoes: He's peein' right there on the pavement, he is!

Tiny Tom: If he's goin', then I'm goin'!

Lockstock: Oh no, you're not!

Barrel: All right, then! Make way!

Lockstock: Make way, damn you! Make way!

Old Man Strong: Ahhh. That's better.

Barrel: So, if it ain't Old Man Strong.

Old Man Strong: The same.

Lockstock: Is this your doing, Strong?

Old Man Strong: It is.

Lockstock: Seize him!

Lockstock: You've done a terrible thing here today, Strong.

Old Man Strong: I did what I thought was necessary.

Penny: Grab a mop, Bobby. Never thought I'd live to see the day.

Lockstock: Breaking the Public Health Act is an exiling offense, Strong.

Barrel: Quite exiling.

Old Man Strong: What if it is? I feel better now, and that's all I cares about.

Bobby: Oh, Pa.

Lockstock: Always knew we'd get you in the end, Joseph Strong. Take him away!

Old Man Strong: Bobby!

Bobby: Pa!

Old Man Strong: Don't forget me, Bobby!

Bobby: I won't, Pa!

Old Man Strong: And tell yer mother... tell yer mother that I love her!

Bobby: I will, Pa! I will!

Old Man Strong: Remember me, boys! Oh God, what have I done?! Remember me!

Bobby: "What became of him"? What do you mean by that?

Lockstock: Just keep your head out of the clouds, that's all I'm saying. Good day.

Penny: All right, Who's ready to pay?!

Soupy Sue: It's my last few dollars, but I'll pay.

Tiny Tom: Me, too!

Little Becky Two-shoes: Me, too!

Soupy Sue: We'll all pay, Bobby Strong! Always and forever, just so long as you keep lettin' us pay!

Bobby: Oh, Pa! What's to become of you?

Penny: Back to work, then, Bobby! The morning rush is on!

Scene 2

Fipp: Where's my dough?!

Cladwell: Isn't that what we're all asking ourselves, Senator? Where's my dough? From the cop walking his beat to the little baby asleep in his mother's arms, we're all asking the same question: Where's my dough? And by dough, of course, I mean money.

Fipp: I made my Speech! Where's my dough?!

Cladwell: Oh, there'll be plenty of dough for everyone, Senator, once the new fee hikes breeze through the Legislature.

Fipp: I was hoping to wait for the vote during my latest fact finding mission- to Rio! Wouldn't want to be around once the new fee hikes breeze through.

Cladwell: You think I've gone too far this time, don't you, Fipp?

Fipp: It's a powder keg out there, Cladwell. This time I think it's gonna blow!

Hope: Daddy?

CLADWELL/FIPP/MCQUEEN: Whaa-?!

Cladwell: Hope darling, I thought you'd never get here!

Hope: Sorry I'm late, Daddy. I left just as soon as my exams were finished.

Cladwell: How's everything, dear?

Hope: Fine, Daddy. Just fine. It feels great to be done with school. Finally.

Cladwell: You see there, Mister McQueen! Beautiful, big hearted, and now with a head filled with the best stuff money can buy.

MCQUEEN: Well, if the Stuff in her head is nearly as big as the stuff in her heart, I'm sure she'll be running this company in no time.

Cladwell: That'll be all, Mister McQueen.

MCQUEEN: Yes, of course.

Fipp: Well, I'll be. Hope Cladwell, and all grown up, too.

Hope: Hello, Senator.

Fipp: Come to join your father's little operation?

Hope: It's just a fax/copy position, Of course. First day.

Fipp: A fax/copy girl, huh? Well, your father mentioned he was bringing on a new fax/copy girl. He neglected, however, to mention how beautiful she'd be. You'd be. You're so beautiful. Even as a little girl I always thought-

Cladwell: That's enough, Fipp.

Fipp: Yes, of course.

Cladwell: Well, we won't keep you, Senator; it's a big day. I'm sure you'll have your hands full on the floor of the Legislature, what with the fee hike vote and all.

Fipp: Oh, they'll be full, Cladwell. And by this time tomorrow I fully expect them to be full of cash.

Cladwell: Oh, they'll be full of cash, Senator. We'll all be full of cash, provided the vote comes through.

Fipp: Oh, the vote will come through, Cladwell. It'll come through just as long as you come through with the cash.

Cladwell: No worries there, Senator. Once the vote comes through, there'll be nothing else to come through but the cash.

Fipp: And no need to worry about the vote-

Cladwell: Fipp! I think we understand each other.

Fipp: Yes. Well. Goodbye.

Cladwell: Let's meet the staff. Staff!

Cladwell: Staff, this here's my daughter- and our newest fax copy girl- Hope Cladwell. Hope Cladwell, the good people of Urine Good Company, or UGC, as it's known for short.

Hope: Hello, everybody!

UGC STAFF: Hello, Hope!

Cladwell: Say a few words, Hope darling.

Hope: Well... uh... it's a great company and I hope to help you make it even greater.

Cladwell: Well, that's absolutely right, Hope dear, absolutely right. For you see, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago we came to the people of this community with a simple proposition: Look the other way while we run this company the way we see fit, and we will keep the pee off the Street and the water in the ground. Hope here has come to join our little operation, to help us keep that promise, so promise me you'll treat her like the Cladwell she is, for one day she may be standing in the shoes you see me wearing today, the shoes I wore when I made that promise those many years ago.

Hope: Gosh, I never realized large, monopolizing corporations could be such a force for good in the world.

Cladwell: Few do.

Hope: Gosh, Daddy, they certainly do seem to adore you. So why do I feel so conflicted?

Cladwell: Nonsense. Did I send you to the Most Expensive University in the World to teach you how to feel conflicted, or to learn how to manipulate great masses of people?

Hope: To learn how to manipulate great masses of people, Daddy.

Cladwell: Which is exactly what we'll do. Now get faxing!

Hope: And copying!

Cladwell: And- welcome home.

Scene 3

Little Sally: ...Five hundred and thirty seven, five hundred and thirty eight, just a few more...

Lockstock: Well, hello there, Little Sally. Awfully late for a little girl to be out and about. Especially on a night like tonight.

Little Sally: Oh. Just tryin' to scrape together a few coins before the late night rush is all. Got one to spare?

Lockstock: Sure, Little Sally. I'm in a good mood tonight.

Little Sally: Gee, thanks. Say, Officer Lockstock, I was thinkin'. We don't spend much time on hydraulics, do we?

Lockstock: Hydraulics, Little Sally?

Little Sally: You know, hydraulics. Hydration. Irrigation. Or just plain old laundry. Seems to me that with all the talk of water shortage and drought and whatnot, we might spend some time on those things, too. After all, a dry spell would affect hydraulics, too, you know.

Lockstock: Why, sure it would, Little Sally. But... How shall I put it? Sometimes- in a musical- it's better to focus on one big thing rather than a lot of little things. The audience tends to be much happier that way. And it's easier to write.

Little Sally: One big thing, huh?

Lockstock: That's right, Little Sally.

Little Sally: Oh. Then why not hydraulics?

Lockstock: Run along, then, Little Sally. Wouldn't want you to miss last call. Ms. Pennywise won't hold the gate forever, you know.

Little Sally: Oh, yeah, right. Thanks for the coin! Bye!

Barrel: What a night.

Lockstock: Everything cleaned up all right, Mister Barrel?

Barrel: Sure, same as always. Did you hear him scream, though, Mister Lockstock?

Lockstock: Old Man Strong?

Barrel: All the way down to Urinetown.

Lockstock: Oh yes, I heard him, Mister Barrel. But then, they all seem to scream in the end, now, don't they? As their long journey into "exile" comes to a close and the Spires of Urinetown peek above the horizon? They do scream then, Mister Barrel. They most certainly do.

Barrel: I suppose I thought he might be different, somehow.

Lockstock: Different?

Barrel: Old Man Strong. Always seemed a bit tougher than the rest. I was hoping he might... I don't know... surprise us, somehow.

Lockstock: If there's one thing I've learned in my years enforcing the laws Of this city, it's that the journey down to Urinetown offers no surprises. Not even from the very toughest amongst us. On that journey expect only the expected.

Lockstock: Off you go, then, boys. And happy hunting.

Barrel: Hm... yes. So, have you made plans for your journey yet?

Lockstock: To Urinetown?!

Barrel: To Rio, of course.

Lockstock: Oh. Yes. Rio. Well, I had to squeeze Cladwell a bit tighter than usual for our monthly payoffs, extortion fees, money bribes, and such. But-

Barrel: Caution, Mister Lockstock. It would seem we're no longer alone.

Lockstock: Well, I'll be.

Barrel: If I'm not mistaken, that there's his daughter.

Lockstock: So it is. And all grown up, too. Ms. Cladwell! A little late for you to be out, don't you think?

Hope: Oh, hello, Officers.

Lockstock: If I didn't know better, I'd say you were on a late night behind the bushes to relieve yourself for free kind of walk.

Hope: Oh no, Officers. I'm just coming home from work. First day.

Barrel: Long hours.

Lockstock: Just like us.

Hope: There's some kind of big vote down at the Legislature tonight. Plenty of faxing to do.

Barrel: And copying, I imagine.

Hope: Oh yes. And copying.

Lockstock: I must say, Ms. Cladwell, your father mentioned the size and purity of your heart. He neglected, however, to mention the size and purity of your beauty.

Hope: Does beauty have a size, Officer?

Lockstock: In some countries.

Lockstock: I'd take care on these streets late at night, Ms. Cladwell. There's no telling what some people wouldn't do for a few coins.

Barrel: Especially these days, what with the new fee hikes and all.

Hope: Oh, I'm not afraid of people, Officers.

Lockstock: Oh, no?

Hope: Not really. Everyone has a heart, you see. As long as you know that, you need never fear a soul.

Lockstock: Everyone?

Hope: Everyone.

Barrel: Even criminals?

Hope: Even criminals.

Bobby: Even policemen?

LOCKSTOCK/Barrel: Whaa-?!

Barrel: Bobby Strong!

Lockstock: Out a bit late, don't you think?

Bobby: Out late taking care of another late night rush is all. There's talk of more fee hikes, people are getting edgy.

Lockstock: Are they? Well, I'm glad to hear you were otherwise engaged. Wouldn't want to put you under suspicion for taking a late night behind the bushes-

Bobby: I don't need to do that anymore, Officers. Not while I work for Penny, I don't.

Barrel: But you still need to keep your head out of the clouds now, don't you?

Bobby: What do you mean by that?

Lockstock: What he means is, you're a good boy, Bobby Strong. See that you don't end up like your father.

Bobby: And how did my father end up?

Lockstock: Well, we're off. Our work's never done. Good night.

Hope: Good night, Officers.

Barrel: Good night, Bobby.

Hope: You were rather brave with them.

Bobby: I don't care for policemen. Not those two, anyway.

Hope: Policemen protect the peace.

Bobby: Do they?

Hope: Usually.

Bobby: Didn't I see you down by the amenity this morning?

Hope: That was me. I was rushing off to work, first day.

Bobby: Find your way all right?

Hope: The gleaming tower on the hill? Couldn't miss it.

Bobby: Beautiful.

Hope: It's rather shiny, that's true enough.

Bobby: Did you mean what you said to those policemen? About everyone having a heart?

Hope: Well, sure I did.

Bobby: Because... well, because mine feels awful cold just now.

Hope: Cold?

Bobby: Or empty. One of the two.

Hope: Not because of me, I hope?

Bobby: Oh no. Because of something I did.

Old Man Strong: Bobby! Bobby, reason with the woman! I'm a little Short this morning!

Tiny Tom: No shorter than yesterday. Unless I've grown.

Bobby: Or, rather, something I didn't do.

Hope: If it feels cold, then it must still be there, don't you think?

Bobby: Unless there's a vacuum where it used to be.

Hope: A vacuum? In your chest? It sounds so implausible.

Bobby: I did something wrong this morning is all I'm trying to say. I can't seem to get it out of my head.

Hope: The vacuum?

Bobby: My action. I‘let someone down that I love dearly. I feel real bad about it.

Hope: Well, maybe that's nature's way of telling you that now's the time to lift someone up?

Bobby: Really?

Hope: Sure. Do you think you'd be feeling as bad as you do if you didn't have a heart?

Bobby: I don't know. I suppose not.

Hope: Of course you wouldn't. Because then you'd be dead.

Bobby: Follow my heart? But to where?

Hope: To wherever your heart tells you to go.

Bobby: Even... there?

Hope: Even to the clouds, if that's what your heart commands. What's it saying now?

Bobby: I don't know. I don't know how to listen to my heart.

Hope: You have to listen carefully. Here, let me try.

Bobby: Do you-

Hope: Sshh! Ah, there it is. It's saying

Hope: You see there? Even your heart knows you should follow your heart.

Bobby: "Peace and joy. Plenty of water." I guess I do want those things.

Hope: There's something else your heart was saying. Maybe something I shouldn't have heard.

Bobby: There was?

Hope: I think so. It was barely audible, but I definitely heard something.

Bobby: Well? What was it?

Hope: Let me try again, maybe I can make it out this time. There it is. So faint... it's saying

Hope: "Someone is waiting there"? Why, my heart was saying those exact words just the other day.

Bobby: It was?

Hope: Sure it was. "Squalor and noise," "hopes and joys." It was telling me about all those things.

Bobby: I didn't know two hearts could speak as one.

Hope: I didn't either. Until now. Here, listen.

Hope: Well, good night...

Bobby: Bobby. Bobby Strong.

Hope: Good night, Bobby Strong.

Bobby: And good night...

Hope: Hope.

Bobby: Good night, Hope. I won't forget what you said, about the clouds and my heart.

Hope: And I won't forget what you said, about the laughter and the gladness.

Hope: Wait a minute, when can I see you again?

Bobby: In this darkness I'm afraid you can't see me at all. But a bright, shining world is waiting to start, I can feel it. Come to Amenity Number Nine tomorrow. I'll show it to you.

Little Sally: She loves him, doesn't she, Officer Lockstock?

Lockstock: Sure, She does, Little Sally. He's the hero of the Show, she has to love him.

Little Sally: Yeah. Everyone loves Bobby Strong. What's it like, Officer Lockstock?

Lockstock: What's what like, Little Sally?

Little Sally: Urinetown.

Lockstock: Oh, I can't tell you that, Little Sally.

Little Sally: Why not?

Lockstock: Because it's a secret, that's why. Its power depends on mystery. I can't just blurt it out, like "There is no Urinetown! We just kill people!" Oh no. The information must be oozed out slowly, until it bursts forth in one mighty, cathartic moment! Somewhere in Act Two. With everybody singing, and things like that.

Little Sally: Oh. I get it.

Lockstock: Well, I should be going. It's time for the next scene.

Little Sally: The next morning at the amenity, when the new fee hikes are announced?

Lockstock: That's the one. So long for now, Little Sally. And keep your head down.

Scene 4

MCQUEEN: And so with this piece of paper the UGC awards Amenity Number Nine the first of our new and entirely legal fee hikes, which we hope you all will honor and enjoy.

MCQUEEN: Of course, no one knows better than the good people at Urine Good Company how difficult times are, but research into finding the long term solutions we need is expensive. So, for the time being, our decision is firm and we look forward to going to Rio with our new profits. I mean, we look forward to finding lasting solutions... and things like that. Good luck, Ms. Pennywise, see you in... well, you know where.

Tiny Tom: You can't do this to us, Ms. Pennywise! It'll be off to Urinetown for the lot of us sooner or later if you do!

Penny: And it'll be off to Urinetown for me if I don't. Now get in line and have your money ready- the new fee hike money, that is!

Bobby: Ms. Pennywise!

Penny: Bobby Strong! Where the hell have you been?!

Bobby: Sorry I'm late, Ms. Pennywise. I was up all night thinkong, is all.

Penny: Up all night thinking, is it?! You work here now, Bobby, you don't need to go in the bushes anymore.

Bobby: I wasn't-

Penny: Like father, like son, that's what I say. Now let's get to work.

Bobby: But it was about my father that I was thinking, Ms. Pennywise. About what happened to him yesterday. About what's happening to all of us.

Penny: He broke the law yesterday, Bobby, and that's the end of it.

Bobby: But what if the law is wrong?

Penny: What did you say?

Bobby: I said, what if the law is wrong, Ms. Pennywise?! What if all this is wrong?!

Penny: Wrong?! You've got a sweet lookin' head, Bobby, a sweet lookin' head! But you keep it up there in the clouds day after day after day, and it's gotta come down from there. You hear me?! Get that head out of the clouds, Bobby Strong! You get it out of the clouds!

Penny: Alright, folks, you know the drill.

Penny: The same as it's always been.

Penny: Now, who's first?

JOSEPHINE STRONG: I am!

Bobby: Ma!

Penny: We'll take your fee now, Mrs. Strong. The improved fee, that is.

Josephine: But this is all I have, Ms. Pennywise.

Little Sally: Haven't you enough, Mrs. Strong?

Josephine: Here's all I have, Bobby. Is it enough?

Bobby: You hold on to that money, Ma.

Josephine: Really?

Penny: The fee is the law, Bobby Strong. She'll abide by it or she'll join her husband.

Bobby: And what if there was a new law in town, Ms. Pennywise? A new law that didn't come from any voting process or elected body or process of judicial review, but a brand new law that came from an organ. That's right, a muscular, blood pumping organ. Like this one. Right here.

Penny: A muscular organ?

Bobby: Can't you see it, Ms. Pennywise? Well, if this one's too small for you, Why not try this one on for size?!

Penny: It's... it's blinding me!

Penny: Don't do this, Bobby. You'll regret it.

Bobby: I don't think so. C'mon, Ma. This one's on the house. For everyone! Forever!

Penny: Oh, Bobby, what's to become of you? What's to become of us all?!

Scene 5

Cladwell: You'll be off to Rio, then, I imagine?

Fipp: Already got my ticket.

Cladwell: Good work on the floor of the Legislature, Fipp. It was touch and go there for a while, I understand.

Fipp: Well, your "Beaches of Rio" slide show changed their minds soon enough. Just like it changed my mind those many years ago. God, I wish I'd never met you, Caldwell B. Cladwell.

Hope: Sorry to interrupt, Daddy. I just wanted to make sure you got your morning faxes.

Cladwell: Why, Hope, you're absolutely glowing!

Fipp: It would seem that office work agrees with her. What with the faxing and all.

Cladwell: And the copying.

Fipp: Oh yes. The copying. You're a good girl, Hope Cladwell. I used to be one. Before I met your father.

Hope: A good girl?

Fipp: You heard me.... Six hundred and twenty two. Six hundred and twenty three. Just a few more.

Hope: Daddy? Can I ask you a question?

Cladwell: Sure, Hope darling. What is it?

Hope: Do you believe in love?

Cladwell: Love? Why do you ask?

Hope: Just wondering. I met this boy, you see-

MCQUEEN: Sorry to interrupt, Mister Cladwell. We've got a little problem.

Penny: Caldwell. Long time, no see.

Cladwell: Ms. Pennywise.

MCQUEEN: Anyway... it's about Public Amenity Number Nine, sir. The people there have rioted.

Cladwell: Rioted?!

Penny: They're peeing for free, Caldwell. I tried to stop them.

Lockstock: The assistant custodian is refusing to take people's money, sir. A young man by the name of Bobby Strong.

Hope: Bobby Strong?

Lockstock: They've rescinded the Public Health Act.

MCQUEEN: And the Water Preservation Act.

Fipp: Can they do that?!

MCQUEEN: Strictly symbolic, sir. The crowd gathered there is an unthinkably small percentage of the population as a whole.

Hope: What's happening, Daddy? I don't understand.

Cladwell: I wouldn't expect a good and pure heart like yours to understand.

Lockstock: Mister Barrel and I are ready, Mister Cladwell. Just give the word.

Fipp: What did I tell you, Cladwell? It's a powder keg out there, and I have a very important plane to catch! Excuse me.

Cladwell: Fipp! You're not going anywhere. Not until we nip this unpleasantness in the bud.

Hope: Nip? How so?

Cladwell: You're a Cladwell, Hope. What would you do if the very foundation of your life's work were threatened by the rabble rousing son of a convicted criminal?

Hope: Look deep into his heart and try to understand what made it pound so angrily.

Cladwell: Angry, you say?! No one gets angry at me! Not without a beating!

Hope: A beating? Oh, Daddy, beating people is wrong.

Cladwell: Life is a beating! The sooner you learn that, the better.

Hope: Then life is wrong.

Cladwell: Embrace it. I have.

Hope: Life should be beautiful.

Cladwell: Life is many things. Look deeper, you'll see it. I do. I see it everywhere.

Hope: But, Daddy, we're talking about people, not animals.

Cladwell: People are animals, Hope darling.

Hope: Animals with huge incisors and big floppy feet?

Cladwell: Look closely, you'll see them. I do. I see them... everywhere.

Hope: A little bunny at a tollbooth?

Cladwell: You heard me.

Hope: But, Daddy, bunnies don't drive cars.

Cladwell: Oh, don't they?!

Hope: No, actually, I don't think they do.

Cladwell: Live long enough, Hope darling, you see... many things.

Hope: Even a daughter doubting her father?

Cladwell: All right, everybody, get yourselves together! It's time we bagged ourselves a few rabbits! Let's go!

Scene 6

Bobby: One at a time! One at a time! Everyone will get a turn!

Soupy Sue: Here's some cash, Bobby. Just for you.

Bobby: Keep your cash, friend. And relieve yourself in happiness.

Josephine: A busy day so far. Busiest on record, if your books are right. How's the urinal holding out?

Bobby: A little spillage, nothing to be concerned about. The people are happy, that's the main thing.

Little Becky Two-shoes: Police!

Robby the Stockfish: Run!

Bobby: Wait! Wait! Please, everyone, remain calm!

Lockstock: It'll take a lot of explaining to keep us calm, Bobby Strong.

Bobby: We've taken control of this amenity, Officers. The people here pee for free.

Cladwell: That's my amenity, Officers. I want all of these people taken away.

Little Sally: Officer Lockstock, what's happening?

Lockstock: Why, it's the Act One finale, Little Sally. This is where Cladwell arrives to snuff out the uprising. It's a big song and dance number involving the entire cast.

Little Sally: Snuff out the uprising? But what about Bobby's dreams?

Lockstock: Well now, Little Sally, dreams only come true in happy musicals- and a few Hollywood movies- and this certainly isn't either one of those. No, dreams are meant to be crushed. It's nature's way.

Little Sally: This may not be a happy musical, Officer Lockstock, but it's still a musical. And when a little girl has been given as many lines as I have, there's still hope for dreams!

Hope: Bobby?!

Bobby: Hope?!

Hope: What are you doing, Bobby?! I told you to follow your heart, not seize an amenity!

Bobby: I did follow my heart, Hope. Thanks to you.

Penny: The amenity won't take much more of this uprising, Caldwell. Bobby's a sweet boy, but not sweet enough to sweeten that spillage, not by a long shot.

Bobby: The amenity will take as much as it has to, Ms. Pennywise. The days of deprivation are over for these people.

Cladwell: The days of deprivation have just begun if this madness continues a moment longer.

Bobby: Sure, Mister Cladwell, that's what you've been saying for twenty years. And for twenty years we've waited for the long term solutions that never came. Well, we're done waiting, you see, for a new day has dawned today. A day of hope and happiness when the idea of human dignity is more than just a forgotten notion, but a living, breathing reality. A day- this day- when the people pee for free, because the people are free!

Penny: Uh, perhaps best to stay back here with your father, Hope dear. The police will want to charge soon.

Bobby: Your father?

Hope: Charge?! Daddy, these people need understanding, not brutality.

Cladwell: On the contrary, Hope dear, a little brutality is exactly what these people need. Officer Lockstock!

Hope: Daddy, wait. He only wants the people to be happy, isn't that worth something?

Cladwell: Happy, you say?! Happy?!

Cladwell: Officer Lockstock! Prepare your... man.

Bobby: Everybody into the amenity! We'll be... relatively safer in there!

Hope: Oh, Bobby, why didn't you tell me you were going to start a revolution?

Bobby: Maybe for the same reason you didn't tell me you were a Cladwell.

Hope: I'm the same girl I was last night.

Bobby: The girl last night would have joined us by now, Hope.

Hope: I can't fight against my father, Bobby.

Bobby: And I can't not fight against him. So you can join us or you can stand aside.

Hope: Stand aside?

Bobby: You heard me.

Cladwell: You've picked a fight you can't win, today, Mister Strong! Your rabble is no match for my men.

Josephine: He's right, Bobby. They've got... one... two... two men, and we're all so poor!

Cladwell: New release the girl. It's time you faced your punishment like a man.

Bobby: Release?! No one's holding-

Old Man Strong: Bobby! Bobby, reason with the woman! I'm a little short this morning!

Tiny Tom: No shorter than yesterday. Unless I've grown.

Little Sally: You can punish our bodies, Mister Cladwell, but you can never punish our spirits!

Soupy Sue: Punish our bodies?!

Little Becky Two-shoes: I never agreed to any punishment of my body!

Cladwell: Oh, punishment is all you'll ever know... once you release the girl!!

Hope: So what'll it be, Bobby?

Bobby: Looks like we're in a real tight spot, doesn't it?

Hope: Your fellow revolutionaries seem to think so.

Bobby: I suppose we should leave.

Hope: Oh, Bobby, they'll never let you leave now.

Old Man Strong: Remember me, boys! Oh God, what have I done?! Remember me!!!

Bobby: Not without you, they won't. Which is why you're coming with us.

Hope: Coming with you? I told you, Bobby, I won't fight against my father.

Bobby: And I told you I won't not fight against him.

Hope: But how can I come with you and still not fight against my father unless... unless... oh dear God, Bobby, no!!!

Bobby: Keep your men back, Cladwell! We've got your daughter and we're not letting her go!

Hope: Bobby, what are you-

Josephine: In the name of the sky, you're coming with us!

Bobby: We're walking out of here, Mister Cladwell, and you're going to let us! That is, if you care about your daughter.

Cladwell: You're making a terrible mistake, Mister Strong.

Penny: Let the girl go, Bobby, she's done nothing wrong!

Bobby: Don't let go of the girl. And follow me!

Lockstock: Boss, what do we do?!

Cladwell: Seize them!

Penny: No!

Cladwell: Don't let them get away!

Hope: Help me!

Penny: Help her!

Bobby: Now run, everybody! Run for your lives! RUN!!

Lockstock: Well, that's it for Act One. As you can see, the rebel poor are making their getaway with Hope as a hostage. The rest of us have been thrown into confusion because- well, because we're all moving so damned slowly. So we don't get to catch them. Not yet. Enjoy intermission, and see you- shortly!

Act 2

Scene 1

Lockstock: Well, hello there. And welcome- to Act Two! Things have changed here a bit Since last we saw each other, so I'll bring you up‘to speed on a few things. As you may remember, the rebel poor under Bobby's leadership kidnapped Hope and used her as a shield to escape due punishment from my... man. Word has it they're holed up in some secret hideout somewhere. Perhaps this one- here.

Soupy Sue: Where the hell is Bobby?! And Little Sally?! And Old Ma Strong?! They should have been back by now.

Hot Blades Harry: Ah, who are we kiddin'? The police probably nabbed them hours ago. It's just a matter of time before our whereabouts are tortured out of them. And then it'll be off to Urinetown for the lot of us.

Tiny Tom: Wha- what's it like, do you think?

Hot Blades Harry: Urinetown? Don't even ask.

Robby the Stockfish: No one knows for sure.

Hot Blades Harry: I got my suspicions.

Tiny Tom: Oh yeah?

Little Becky Two-shoes: Sure, kid, everyone's got suspicions.

Hot Blades Harry: So don't get your hopes up. And I say if they're not back soon, we give it to her like her father was gonna give it to us.

Lockstock: People hear lots of things about Urinetown, of course, and that's just the way we like it. For example, a little boy once asked me, "Is Urinetown actually a nice place to live? Gingerbread houses along golden, frothy canals? Like Venice, but different?" I didn't say yes. I didn't say no either.

Cladwell: I want them found, damn it! I want my daughter released and I want Bobby Strong punished!

Lockstock: We're working round the Clock, Sir. But as the sign says, it is a secret hideout, so-

Cladwell: Enough of your excuses, Lockstock! You've got weapons! Use them!

Lockstock: But, sir-

McQueen: We should hurry, sir. The Emergency Planning Quorum is waiting.

Cladwell: Yes, of course. The Quorum.

Josephine: That was a close one, Bobby. I thought Barrel saw us there for sure.

Bobby: We'll have to keep on our toes, Ma. At least until we've distributed the rest of these memos to the other assistant custodians around the city.

Josephine: Do you think they'll join us?

Bobby: Hard to say. They're scared like we used to be scared, but if it's true what they say about everyone having a heart, they'll have to join us.

Josephine: Your heart is like a stallion?

Bobby: I'll explain along the way, Ma. C'mon, let's go.

Lockstock: Where are they hiding, Little Sally?! Tell me and I'll see things go easy on you.

Little Sally: Easy on me?! You mean like sending me to the nice part of Urinetown?!

Lockstock: That can be arranged.

Little Sally: Save it for one of your other stoolies, Officer Lockstock. My heart's with the rebellion. And besides, the way I see it, I'm already in Urinetown. We all are. Even you.

Lockstock: Me? In Urinetown?

Little Sally: Sure. The way I see it, Urinetown isn't so much a a place as it is a metaphysical place.

Lockstock: Where'd she go?! Damn it. Welcome back, everybody. And enjoy- what's left of the show! Little Sally... Little Sally... What did you mean by "metaphysical"?

Scene 2

Hot Blades Harry: I say five more seconds and then we let her have the rope. Five... Four... Three, two, one!

Little Sally: Geez, that was a close one. Cops crawlin' all over the place.

Little Becky Two-shoes: Little Sally! Where the hell have you been?!

Little Sally: Spyin' near the tower, is all. Cladwell and Fipp and Ms. Pennywise, they was all meetin' up there. Some kind of- I don't know what you want to call it- a quorum of some kind.

Hot Blades Harry: That's it, she gets the rope.

Little Sally: The rope?

Little Becky Two-shoes: String her up!

Little Sally: Wait a minute! You can't just give her the rope!

Hot Blades Harry: Why not?!

Little Sally: Because killin' her would make us no better than them.

Little Becky Two-shoes: Haven't you heard, Little Sally? We are no better than them. In fact, we're worse.

Little Sally: Worse?!

Hot Blades Harry: Whaddaya think they talk about in those quorums they got up there- how good we are?! So listen up now! Any second those cops are gonna bust in here and bust us up like a bunch of overripe cantaloupes! So I say as long as our juice has gotta spill- all over this floor, here- her juice has gotta spill, too! Cladwell juice! Then we'll see who's better than who.

Little Sally: "Snuff that girl"? But killing people is wrong!

Little Becky Two-shoes: Then why does it feel so right?

Tiny Tom: Let's bring our message of hate to the entire world!

Hot Blades Harry: Easy, friend, a message like ours works best under extremely unbalanced circumstances.

Little Becky Two-shoes: Such as we have right here?

Hot Blades Harry: Exactly. Now, get the rope.

Tiny Tom: That's right, the rope.

Little Becky Two-shoes: String her up. That's the answer. String up the strumpet daughter of the criminal urinal chain owner Cladwell!

Soupy Sue: Kill her!

Robby the Stockfish: Hang her!

Little Becky Two-shoes: Kill her!

Bobby: Enough!

The poor: Whaa-?!

Little Sally: Bobby Strong.

Bobby: No one's going to be killing anyone around here.

Hot Blades Harry: Why not?

Josephine: Because she's our security blanket, that's why!

Soupy Sue: But we're so afraid, Bobby. Killing her might make us feel powerful for a moment.

Bobby: Friends, I know you're afraid. But this has got to be about more than just revenge and the vicarious thrill of stringing someone up who can't defend herself.

Little Becky Two-shoes: But why? We want to hang her as revenge for her father's crimes.

Little Sally: I think he's just in love with her, that's what I think.

Bobby: Maybe I am.

All: Whaa-?!

Bobby: And maybe I made a promise up there. A promise that from this day forward, no man would be denied his essential humanity due to the condition of his pocketbook. That no man in need would be ignored by another with the means to help him. Here and now, from this day forward, because of you, and you, and you, we will look into the faces of our fellow men and see not only a brother, but a sister as well.

Hot Blades Harry: What is that supposed to mean?

Soupy Sue: When did he say that?

Tiny Tom: I don't remember him saying that.

Little Becky Two-shoes: All I remember him saying was "Run! Run for your lives! Run!"

Bobby: Well, that was in the heat of battle. And in the heat- the actual hotness of battle- the cry of freedom sounds something like

Tiny Tom: I'm frightened!

Bobby: As well you should be. Freedom is scary; it's a blast of cool wind that burns your face to wake you up.

Tiny Tom: Literally?!

Bobby: Yes.

Little Sally: What do we do now?

Josephine: The police will be on the lookout for us, that's for sure.

Bobby: When the time comes, we fight the police!

Soupy Sue: But how?!

Bobby: With blood! Guts! Brains, if we have to! It may take years! And some of us will almost certainly not make it through the revolution alive! Maybe all of us! But fight on we will, for all the decades necessary, to claim freedom for the people of this' land!!

Tiny Tom: Decades?

Little Becky Two-shoes: How about a real plan?

Penny: I've got a real plan.

All: Whaa-?!

Bobby: Ms. Pennywise? How did you find us?

Penny: I had a feeling you'd be here. No one knows the sewer system like you do, Bobby.

Bobby: Or you.

Penny: Cladwell would like to talk to you, Bobby.

Bobby: What about?

Penny: He wants to discuss the situation with you man-to-man. He says he now understands how unhappy the people of this community have become and he wants to work out a solution with you. Peacefully.

Tiny Tom: Now there's a shortcut.

Soupy Sue: That'll save us on the decades of struggle!

Josephine: But can we trust him?

Penny: Mister Cladwell doesn't want a fight, Mrs. Strong. He just wants his amenities up and running, smooth and natural. That's all he's ever wanted.

Bobby: What do you think, Little Sally?

Little Sally: I think it might be difficult for your love to grow with Hope tied to that chair for the rest of her life.

Bobby: All right, I'll go.

Josephine: Bobby, no! What if it's a trick?!

Bobby: That's just a chance I'll have to take.

Penny: What about the girl?

Josephine: She stays here. Any funny business and she gets it. You tell that to Cladwell.

Penny: Sure, I'll tell him. Likewise with the girl. Give it to her and we give it to him. Get me?

Bobby: We'll be careful.

Penny: Now, stay calm, Hope darling. We'll have you out of this in no time.

Hope: Hello, Bobby.

Bobby: Hello, Hope.

Hope: So this is the bright, new day you were telling me about.

Bobby: I don't blame you for being angry with me, Hope. But your father gave us no choice.

Hope: They may not have taught me much at the Most Expensive University in the World, but they taught me this much: kidnapping people is wrong.

Bobby: Really? They taught you that there?

Hope: I thought we had something special together, Bobby.

Bobby: We do have something special together, Hope. But until freedom rules the people of this land instead of fear, love has about as much chance as a baby bunny drowning in a vat of boiling water.

Hope: Maybe less.

Bobby: I didn't mean to drag you into all this, Hope.

Hope: And I didn't mean to... Oh, I guess I don't know what I meant to do.

Bobby: Look to your heart, Hope. I think the answer to what you want is waiting for you there, deep down, somewhere among the tissues.

Hope: Wait a minute, when will I see you again?

Hope: Oh, Bobby.

Scene 3

Cladwell: You've caused a lot of excitement over the past few days, Mister Strong. Gotten a lot of people riled up.

Bobby: This is just the beginning, Mister Cladwell. The people have only just begun to fight.

Cladwell: Keeping my daughter confined against her will- is that how the people fight?

Bobby: They fight by any means necessary.

Mrs. Millennium: The streets are still ours, Mister Strong. Your people are just holed up in some underground sewer.

Bobby: They'll be up.

Lockstock: Sorry to interrupt, Mister Cladwell. There's a disturbance over at Public Amenity Number Thirty-two, Number Fifteen as well. Word's begun to spread.

Barrel: People have gathered at all the rest. They're waiting to see what young Bobby will do.

Lockstock: After he meets with you, of course.

Cladwell: Of course. Mister McQueen! Do you remember the Stink Years, Mister Strong? The first years when the water table started to drop and then just kept on dropping? No one thought they had much time then, and many of us did... questionable things, much like the things that are happening right now. There was the looting, of course, and the hoarding. Riots broke out like there was no tomorrow, for there was no tomorrow, but there is always a tomorrow if you're tough enough to cling to it. Which is why I've asked you here tonight.

All: Ooooooooo.

Cladwell: Some people see me as an... evil man.

Cladwell: But the truth is, I'm no more evil than you or Ms. Pennywise or any of those poor people you insist on trying to lead. I'm only a simple man trying to cling to tomorrow. Every day. By any means necessary.

Bobby: And what happens when the drought is over?

Cladwell: Over? Well, we can always hope, I suppose. But until then our regimen of controlling consumption through the regulating mechanism of cash must continue.

Bobby: Ah yes, the regulating mechanism of cash.

Cladwell: Bobby, I want you to have this cash. And I want you to tell the people that the powers that be grant full amnesty to those involved in this week's criminal activities as long as they're willing to return to the improved fee schedule as authorized by the Legislature. Don't let it happen again, and have a good time in Rio.

Bobby: So many tomorrows.

Cladwell: Yes.

Bobby: But I'm afraid my conscience will cost you more than a pile of cash, Mister Cladwell.

Penny: Bobby, it really is an awful lot of cash.

Bobby: Free access is the only "cash" I'm interested in.

Cladwell: I thought we had an understanding, Bobby.

Bobby: Then understand this: If there truly is a way to that bright, new day, we'll find it together. All of us, not just the wealthy few. And that means free access.

Cladwell: Free access is impossible.

Bobby: Then that's what I'll tell the people.

Cladwell: Stop! We'll not return to the Stink Years, Mister Strong. I'll not allow it.

Penny: Caldwell, what are you doing?!

Cladwell: I've spent a lifetime building this company, paying off the police, bribing the political elite, and snuffing out popular resistance as if it were a naughty baby bunny in the palm of my hand. My right hand. I've centralized all power to a pinpoint spot- right here! Between these two ears! And I'm not going to allow some dreamy-eyed boy who can't remember the Stink Years to ruin all that! Seize him!

Penny: Don't do it, Caldwell! There's no telling what they'll do to the girl!

Cladwell: That's just a chance I'll have to take.

Mrs. Millennium: He really is as evil as they say.

Cladwell: You think just because I love my daughter I'll stop clinging to tomorrow?!

Penny: Caldwell, what are you saying?!

Cladwell: I Closed my heart to love once, I can do it again! To Urinetown with him, then! With all haste, Officer Lockstock! With all haste!

Bobby: You lied to us, Cladwell! CLADWELL!

Cladwell: You, get word to police headquarters; we'll need all hands on deck tonight. You, you, and you, stay with me! We'll see about these little "disturbances." And Fipp!

Fipp: Yes, Cladwell?

Cladwell: Assemble the Legislature. I want full authority for the coming crackdown.

Fipp: And dirty my hands with this bad business? Not on your life.

Cladwell: Don't kid yourself, Fipp. Your hands are as filthy as a child's after sandbox time. But don't worry, you can wash them soon enough! Wash them by the banks of the Rio del Rio. Now go! You, you, and you! Come with me!

Bobby: You lied to us, Cladwell! You told us one thing, then you did another! That's what you did, Cladwell! That's what you did!

Lockstock: Come on then, young Bobby. You can't keep screaming all the way down to Urinetown.

Bobby: But Hope, she's still with the others. What happens to me happens to her.

Lockstock: What happens to you happens to all of us sooner or later.

Barrel: Rather later than sooner, I'd say.

Bobby: But not to Hope! Oh, please, not to Hope!

Penny: Let go of me! I have to save Hope!

UGC Executive #1: There's no saving Hope now, Ms. Pennywise.

UGC Executive #2: There may be no saving you.

Penny: Oh no?! Then take that! And that! And this! And a few of these!

Bobby: So what's it like, this Urinetown that I've heard so much about?

Barrel: Perhaps better for us to "show" you.

Bobby: What's this? Where are we?

Barrel: You, my boy, stand on the very threshold to a new world.

Lockstock: The door is in front of you. Step through and Urinetown awaits.

Bobby: Door? More like... a railing. And pigeons. A rooftop?

Barrel: And a drop.

Lockstock: A decisive drop.

Bobby: I guess I still don't understand.

Barrel: Never fear, the time of understanding is at hand!

Lockstock: Welcome, then! To the very gates of Urinetown itself!

Bobby: Look, there's Public Amenity Number Forty-seven! And the Legislature! And... and my boyhood home! Why, we're just standing on top of the UGC headquarters building. And this... this is our town!

Lockstock: Yes. Yes, it is.

Bobby: How could it be that we're in our town and in Urinetown at the same time... unless... unless... dear God, no! You couldn't have!

Barrel: Over you go, then.

Bobby: Wait a minute, you're just going to throw me off this roof and that's supposed to be Urinetown?! Death is Urinetown?!

Lockstock: That's one interpretation.

Bobby: Hearrrrrrrrrrrrrtttttt!!!!!!!

Lockstock: A shovel and a mop, Mister Barrel. You know the drill.

Scene 4

Little Becky Two-shoes: What's taking them so long?

Soupy Sue: They should have reached an agreement by now. Cladwell's not one to dilly dally.

Tiny Tom: All night the sirens and the screams. Maybe they're celebrating?

Josephine: Bobby won't let us down. He's a good boy, my Bobby Strong. If anyone can find the way to freedom, he can.

Hot Blades Harry: Otherwise we kill the girl. Right? That is the plan, isn't it?

Josephine: Let's not get ahead of ourselves now, shall we?

Josephine: Little Sally? What's going on up there?

Little Sally: It's... it's...

Josephine: Yes?

Little Sally: I saw Bobby.

Josephine: Yes?

Little Sally: I... I don't think the meeting went very well.

Josephine: Why do you say that?

Little Sally: Well, they threw him off a building.

Josephine: What are you saying, Little Sally? Who threw who off a building?

Little Sally: Bobby. The policemen. They threw him off a building.

Josephine: The police threw Bobby off a building?

Soupy Sue: They couldn't have done such a thing; we have Cladwell's daughter.

Little Sally: Well, they did.

Tiny Tom: Is... is he all right?

Little Sally: Um...

Josephine: Well, is he?!

Little Sally: Oh, Bobby. The policemen came soon enough, but not before I heard his last words.

Robby the Stockfish: His last words?

Little Sally: That's right. It was about her.

Soupy Sue: Well, what were they?!

Soupy Sue: "No one is innocent"? What did he mean by that?

Little Sally: I don't know, he started fading in and out after a while. It was a miracle he was alive at all, the fall was so horrible.

Tiny Tom: Was he talking about me? How can he say I'm not innocent? Not innocent of what?

Little Becky Two-shoes: Not innocent?! Who the hell does he think he is?!

Little Sally: Wait! Wait, please. There's more. He said...

Josephine: Yes?

All: Yes?!!

Little Sally: And then he expired.

Little Becky Two-shoes: The bastard Cladwell lied to us.

Josephine: He took my Joseph. Now he takes my Bobby.

Tiny Tom: Who will lead us now?!

Soupy Sue: We're lost! Lost, I tell you! The rebellion is over!

Robby the Stockfish: Destroyed with a shove!

Tiny Tom: What do we do?!

Hot Blades Harry: I'll tell you what we do! We do to her what they did to him!

Soupy Sue: That's right! Do to her what they did to him!

Penny: Or you could take me instead.

All: Whaa-?!

Little Sally: Ms. Pennywise!

Little Becky Two-shoes: Seize her!

Penny: Yes, do whatever you feel you need to, but please, spare the child.

Hot Blades Harry: Old woman, you've been grasping and conniving all your days. Why so giving now?

Penny: Because... Hope is my daughter.

Penny: And I am her mother.

Penny: Yes, Hope, it's true. I am your mother, the onetime lover of Caldwell B. Cladwell.

Tiny Tom: Strumpet!

Little Becky Two-shoes: Slattern!

Penny: Call me what you will, but it was during the Stink Years, you see. No one thought they had much time then, so many of us did... questionable things. There was the looting, of course, and the hoarding. But there were also the fond farewells and the late-night trysts. Life was an explosion filled with riots, cheap cabarets, dancing girls-

Little Sally: And love?

Penny: Oh yes, and love. There was love like no tomorrow, for there was no tomorrow, but there is always a tomorrow of some kind or another. After you were born, Caldwell made me promise never to reveal my identity to you, for I was something of a strumpet in my day. But never in my wildest-

Hope: Enough!

Hope: My heart is telling me many things right now, as you can all well imagine. But one thing it's bellowing louder than anything else is that when there's wrong in the world we must right it. You did a wonderful thing by coming here, Ms. Pennywise. Mom. And if you can reform yourself, maybe we can reform a lot more than we know. Ladies and gentlemen of the rebellion, if you want to do to me what they did to Bobby, I wouldn't blame you.

Little Becky Two-shoes: Seize her!

Hope: But if this righteous rebellion were to peter out in Bobby's absence, sending his memory to oblivion, I would blame you. All of you! Kill me and the rebellion dies with me. Let me lead you and the rebellion will triumph!

Tiny Tom: Lead us?!

Robby the Stockfish: She's mad!

Hope: Lead you to the very nerve center of my father's empire.

Penny: I've got a key!

Hope: And the guards know not to question me. But once there, we'll question Daddy. Oh dear, yes, we'll question him plenty!

Josephine: Why should we trust you?

Hope: Because Bobby- your hero- loved me. And I loved him.

Josephine: Hope, dear girl, on behalf of the people of the rebellion, perhaps we, in time, might be able to love you, too.

Hope: It's all that really matters, isn't it? Love? Now let's go do to them what they were ultimately going to do to us!

All: Hooray!!

Scene 5

Barrel: An absolute maze, that's what the sewer system is.

Lockstock: I'm going back down to give it another look. You stay here to guard the streets.

Barrel: I've been meaning to ask, Mister Lockstock. Do you ever... have doubts about what we've been doing? About the killings and all?

Lockstock: It may surprise you to learn that sometimes I do, but the health and security of this town are my primary concerns. I love the people of this community, Mister Barrel. Very much. Cladwell's edicts may be their only chance.

Barrel: And I love you. Very much.

Lockstock: I see.

Barrel: Well, that went pretty well.

Fipp: I'm perfectly capable of finding my own way to the Legislature, you know.

Mrs. Millennium: No offense, Senator, but Mister Cladwell didn't want you flying the coop, what with the coming crackdown and all.

Fipp: And what if I am flying the coop?! What if I'm actually on my way to the airport right now to catch the last flight out to Rio?! What would you say to that?! Hmmm?!

Mrs. Millennium: Can I come?

Cladwell: Any word from Lockstock and Barrel, Mister McQueen?

McQueen: Not yet, sir. They're still searching the sewer system.

Cladwell: Which is where they'll be keeping Hope, I imagine. I only pray that when we meet in heaven she can find it in the vastness of her heart to forgive me.

Hope: Giving up on me so soon, Daddy?

Cladwell/McQueen: Whaa-?!

McQueen: Ms. Cladwell, what an unexpected surprise.

Hope: Is there any other kind?

Cladwell: Hope, darling, thank God you're safe.

Hope: I'm not safe yet, Daddy, but I will be. Soon all the people of this land will be safe.

Penny: Most of us, anyway.

Cladwell/McQUEEN: WHAA-?

Penny: It's all over, Caldwell. We've come to take you away.

Cladwell: Take me away? But... to where?

Soupy Sue: To the same place you sent young Bobby.

Robby the Stockfish: And Old So and So.

Tiny Tom: And all those who wouldn't- or couldn't- meet your criminal fee hikes.

Cladwell: Hope darling, what's the meaning of this?

Hope: I've joined the revolution, Daddy. And you? I believe it's time you joined the ex-pat community- in Urinetown!

Cladwell: You're making a terrible mistake, Hope darling. You need me more than you know.

Hope: The only thing we need now is freedom, Daddy. For the people.

Little Sally: And love?

Hope: Oh, yes. And love.

Cladwell: That's what I used to think, too, Hope. Before the Stink Years. But worldwide ecological devastation has a way of... changing a man. You're too young to understand it now, Hope dear, but there really are things more important than love. Food, water, and shelter, for example.

Penny: And piles and piles of cash?

Cladwell: It wasn't just cash, Ms. Pennywise. It was an awful lot of cash.

Hope: Take him away.

Cladwell: I regret nothing! You hear me? Nothing!! Maybe I was a bad father and a cruel and vicious man! But I kept the pee off the street and the water in the ground! You hear me?! I kept the water in the ground!!!

McQueen: What now, Ms. Cladwell?

Hope: Now is the beginning for all of us. Now is a new day when each of us, regardless of race, creed, class, or criminal history, can come together as one people and share the fruits of our labor as one. Now is the dawning of a new age of compassion and the right to do whatever you like, whenever you like, with whomever you like, in whatever location you like. Ladies and gentlemen, today marks the final day of an age of fear, an age that lasted far too long. Today marks the first day of a new age! A new age-

Tiny Tom: Don't say it!

Hope: Of hope!

Lockstock: Well, as you guessed, Hope took over her father's business, instituting a series of reforms that opened the public bathrooms to all the people, to pee for free whenever they liked, as much as they liked, for as long as they liked, with whomever they liked. The UGC was renamed the Bobby Strong Memorial Toilet Authority and was operated as a public trust for the benefit of the public.

Little Sally: Officer Lockstock? Where'd you go?

Lockstock: Just keeping my head down, Little Sally. Something you should learn to do.

Little Sally: But aren't you scared the rebels will see you?

Lockstock: Oh, I may be a cop, but I'm also the narrator. So no one can touch me, not if they want the show to end.

Hope: So many people peeing at will. Thanks to the rebellion the world is a much better place.

McQueen: Actually, Ms. Cladwell, your father commissioned a study of water consumption just before he-

Hope: My father was a tyrant. We need never fear him again. Justice is the only tyrant we need obey.

Lockstock: Of course, it wasn't long before the water turned silty, brackish, and then disappeared altogether. As cruel as Caldwell B. Cladwell was, his measures effectively regulated water consumption, sparing the town the same fate as. the phantom Urinetown. Hope chose to ignore the warning signs, however, preferring to bask in the people's love for as long as it lasted.

Little Sally: What kind of musical is this?! The good guys finally take over and then everything starts falling apart?!

Lockstock: Like I said, Little Sally, this isn't a happy musical.

Little Sally: But the music's so happy!

Lockstock: Yes, Little Sally. Yes, it is.

Josephine: Such a fever. If only I had a cool, tall glass of water, maybe I'd have a fighting chance.

Hope: But don't you see, Mrs. Strong? The glass of waters inside you it always has been.

Josephine: It has?

Hope: Of course, it has. Don't you know what you are?

Josephine: A river?

Hope: That's right. We all are.

Little Sally: I don't think too many people are going to come see this musical, Officer Lockstock.

Lockstock: Why do you say that, Little Sally? Don't you think people want to be told that their way of life is unsustainable?

Little Sally: That- and the title's awful. Can't we do a happy musical next time?

Lockstock: If there is a next time, I'm sure we can. Well, that's our story. Hope eventually joined her father in a manner not quite so gentle. Mister McQueen opened a bottling factory just outside Brasilia, which did rather well until the Amazon dried up. Then he moved. As for the people of this town? They did as best they could. But they were prepared for the world they inherited, weaned as they were on the legend born of their founding father's scare tactics. For when the water dried up, they recognized their town for the first time for what it really was. What it was always waiting to be.

Lockstock: Hail, Malthus!

All: Hail, Malthus!

Lockstock: Thank you. And good night.